Step-by-Step Guide to Setting Up a SOC and Honeynet in AWS

1. Setting Up a VPC and Public Subnet

Create a VPC with an appropriate CIDR block (e.g., 10.100.0.0/16).

Create a public subnet within the VPC (e.g., 10.100.0.0/24).

Attach an Internet Gateway (IGW) to allow external communication.

Configure Route Tables to direct traffic appropriately.

2. Deploying Security Onion Instance

Launch an EC2 instance with Security Onion.

Assign two network interfaces:

eth0: Used for packet sniffing (without a public IP assigned).

eth1: Used for management (assigned a public IP for remote access).

Configure Security Groups:

Allow traffic from your personal IP for SSH (port 22).

Open necessary ports for Security Onion tools (e.g., 5601 for Kibana).

3. Configuring Host Files

Add the Security Onion private IP to the local host file for easy identification.

Ensure name resolution works correctly.

4. Accessing Security Onion

SSH into the Security Onion instance.

Perform initial configuration as per Security Onion documentation.

Enable network monitoring and set up detection rules.

5. Deploying a Traffic Mirroring EC2 Instance

Launch a Linux EC2 instance within the same VPC.

Choose an instance type that supports traffic mirroring (e.g., t3.medium or m5.large).

Assign a dedicated Security Group named Onion Sniffing, allowing:

All inbound traffic from the VPC (10.100.0.0/24).

External traffic as required.

6. Configuring Traffic Mirroring

Create a Mirror Filter:

Allow all traffic (0.0.0.0/0).

Add a second rule to allow traffic from the VPC (10.100.0.0/24).

Create a Traffic Mirror Target:

Assign the Security Onion sniffing interface (eth0) as the target.

Create a Traffic Mirror Session:

Mirror Source: The Linux EC2 instance.

Mirror Target: The Security Onion sniffing interface.

Mirror Filter: Apply the previously created filter.

7. Verifying Traffic Mirroring

Run a TCP dump on Security Onion:

sudo tcpdump -i eth0 host <Linux EC2 Private IP>

Generate test traffic on the Linux EC2 instance.

Confirm that packets are appearing in Security Onion.

8. Setting Up Windows Logging and HIDS

Deploy a Windows EC2 instance in the same VPC.

Assign a new Security Group with necessary access.

Install Sysmon for detailed event logging.

Install Elastic Agent and Kibana to forward logs to Security Onion.

9. Configuring Firewall Logging on Security Onion

Enable firewall logging to capture all inbound and outbound connections.

Collect logs for forensic analysis.

10. Integrating AWS Cloud Logs with Security Onion

1. Create an IAM User

Assign it to a group with the following permissions:

SQS Full Access

CloudWatch Full Access

CloudTrail Full Access

WAF Full Access

EC2 Full Access (Not recommended for production).

Save the Access Key and Secret Key for later use.

2. Configure AWS CloudTrail

Create CloudTrail 1 and point it to an existing S3 bucket.

Create CloudTrail 2 and point it to the same or another S3 bucket.

Retrieve the ARN of the S3 bucket.

Add the ARN to an SQS queue with the appropriate JSON policy.

Modify S3 event notifications to push logs to the SQS queue.

3. Create SQS Queue and Enable SNS

Ensure that the SQS queue is properly configured.

Enable SNS notifications for log alerts.

Verify that the JSON policy is correctly applied.

4. Elastic Agent Integration with AWS

Navigate to Security Onion.

Go to AWS CloudTrail Integration.

Add the IAM details and SQS queue information.

Confirm logs are appearing in Security Onion.

11. Testing and Searching with Event ID

Use Security Onion’s Hunt tab to search for logs.

Filter based on event IDs and source IPs.

Correlate findings with firewall logs and system logs for deeper analysis.
